#titolo Holy See debutes pavilion at Venice Biennale - ANSA English
     (By Kate Carlisle)(ANSA) - Rome, 14 - There is no shortage of
artistic inspiration between the Vatican walls.      "Here, at the foot of this magnificent polychrome Sistine
Chapel, is where the cardinals - a community responsible for
passing on the keys to the kingdom - meet. Here is where they
gather. And Michelangelo envelops them in his vision to this
day", John Paul II wrote in his 2003 Polish-language poem
entitled Roman Triptych.      Pope John Paul was not the only pontiff to reflect on the
power of art to move souls.      Benedict XVI also believed in how "images at the hour of
the great decision," speak to the viewer, as he wrote in the
introduction to Pope John Paul's book of poetry.      For the first time, the Holy See has stitched together an
exhibition to be presented at its very own pavilion at none
other than Venice's epic art event, the Biennale - an idea first
alluded to in 2009.      Starting June 1, the 55th International Art Exhibition
entitled Il Palazzo Enciclopedico (The Encyclopedic Palace) runs
until November 2013 at the Giardini and at the Arsenale in the
Adriatic lagoon city.      At a press conference on Wednesday, Biennale organizers
explained that the Holy See's show will be held at the Sale
d'Armi (the Arms Room), an area which is being restored and will
be converted into permanent pavilions.      Reports say that the sovereign nation of the Vatican would
showcase a mix of emerging and established artists from around
the world, fewer than 10 men and women, set up in the
450-square-meter 'Hall of the Holy See'. 
     Works will reportedly draw from the first eleven chapters
from the Book of Genesis.      The Holy See will debut alongside eight other first-time
participants - Paraguay, the Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Bahrain,
Kuwait, the Maldives, Bahamas and the Republic of Kosovo.      The Venice Biennale attracts hundreds of thousands of
visitors to its biannual event, while the Vatican Museums, which
include the Sistine Chapel and one of the world's largest art
collections, attract some three million visitors a year.      During the Biennale, organizers are betting on the long arm
of the Vatican's art prowess to reach out to contemporary art
enthusiasts as well, hoping that the curious will go to see
what's in the See.
