#titolo Stupinigi's treasures - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - Stupinigi's Palazzina di Caccia (Hunting
Lodge) reopens to the public with a fantastic new visitors'
route, exploring the restoration works on the complex, which
became a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1997 but which has been
closed to the public since 2006.    The route sets out from the Court of Honour where the green
parterres marked with the site's old hunting routes have been
restored to their original glory. The atrium looks at history of
the site, followed by the Juvarrian Stables with the Cervo del
Ladatte (Stag of Ladatte), which originally adorned the cupola,
while the walls are decorated with 12 wooden medallions with
figureheads from the Savoy family history. The route then moves
into the Library, still with original furniture, and then onto
the Eastern Gallery, followed by the Sala degli Scudieri with
its depiction of the Cignaroli Court hunts. From here, you enter
the Central Hall, with its frescos of the Roman hunting goddess
Diana, created by the Valeriani brothers, complete with
appliqués, fireboards and large-scale lighting. This is the
heart of the building, around which the entire complex's
architecture was developed. 
   The visit wraps up in the Appartamento di Levante (Eastern
Apartment), also known as the Apartment of the Chiablese Dukes. It arrives there by way of a ceremonial route setting out from
the Atrium and the Camera di Parata (Parade Room), winding
through lounges, salons, bedrooms and studies until reaching the
Camera da Gioco (the Games Room). All the rooms, entirely
restored with their splendid frescoed decorations, stuccos and
original wall hangings in silk and painted paper, feature
priceless pieces of furniture, the work of master cabinet-makers
such as Piffetti and Bonzanigo. Advance booking is essential,
either for individuals or groups, and reservations can be made
on line at www.piemonteitaila.eu or by calling toll free from
inside Italy on 800 329 329. (ANSA).
