#titolo Jesuits rejoice at election of 'one of them' - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 14 - Jesuits rejoiced at the election
of one of their own as pope on Wednesday, seeing in the
selection of Jorge Mario Bergoglio as successor to Benedict a
"shock" as well as a sign that the Church is no longer
"Rome-centric", the order's international publication, Popoli,
wrote Thursday.      "A pope taken 'from the end of the world' definitively
opens the Church to globalization, with all its potentialities
and unresolved challenges," the publication said. 
     "As of yesterday, the Church is no longer immediately
identifiable as a principally European or Western 'entity', as
it had been inappropriately for centuries," an editorial in the
publication said.      For Stefano Femminis, Popoli editor, this "means, for the
world, an incredible opening on a mental, cultural and spiritual
level, a "big shock" for Europe and the West whose effects will
be considered over time. For the Vatican Curia (it is) a
challenge towards a renewed collegiality from 'the end of the
world' as well as from the South of the world."
     "A South which in many countries - Argentina is one of
these - (is characterized by) growth rates in GDP which in the
Old continent are a mirage, but which also sees aberrant
economic imbalances and scandalous social injustices, a South
which is fascinated by globalization but also aware of the
highhandedness with which it can wipe out culture and identity,"
Popoli wrote.      "For the first time, therefore, a Pope will look at the
world and the Church through the eyes of this South, and it is a
not-small revolution."
     For Popoli even the selection of the name Francis is a move
in a new direction. 
     "In this sense we like to underline that - while the
reference to Francis of Assisi is undeniable and prophetic,
starting from the new pope's lifestyle - it should also not be
excluded that the Jesuit pope wanted to make a reference also to
the figure of Francesco Saverio," the publication wrote.      "Among the first companions of Ignatius of Loyola, the
founder of the Company of Jesus, patron of missions, pioneer of
evangelization in Asia, Francesco Saverio was an extraordinary
example of that capacity to stay at the frontiers - geographic,
but also and above all else cultural - ever more necessary in
the spreading of the Gospel in the post-modern world," Popoli
said.
