#titolo Israel boosts Milan Expo's efforts to combat hunger - ANSA English
     (By Paul Virgo)
    (ANSA) - Milan, March 13 - Expo 2015's mission to contribute
to the fight against global hunger has been given a big boost by
Israel signing its participation contract for the Milan fair.      The theme of the Expo, 'Feeding the Planet - Energy for
Life', centers on fighting famine and malnutrition worldwide
through sustainable development, global cooperation and new
technology.      And Israel has a big contribution to make in this area.      The Mediterranean country is a pioneer in the fields of
agriculture and effective water management thanks to the
technologies and practices its experts and farmers have
developed to be able to grow food on its largely arid terrain.      "The outstanding innovative expertise of Israel in the
field of technology for agriculture in arid areas undoubtedly
represents a huge added value for the development of the Expo's
theme," said Expo 2015 CEO Giuseppe Sala. 
     "This signature seals a partnership that will provide a
continuous and fruitful dialogue between all the protagonists of
Expo Milano 2015. 
     "Each country is asked to share its knowledge and
excellence in order to help solve the food and environmental
emergencies which are afflicting the planet".      Israel's agricultural excellence centers on innovative,
advanced solutions in the fields of irrigation, farming in
barren areas, the research and development of new varieties of
seeds and organic, eco-friendly agricultural practices.      It has has also achieved success in fighting
desertification with land reclamation policies and ambitious
irrigation systems that have made previously barren areas
fertile. 
     An example is the Kinneret-Negev aqueduct - a
130-kilometer-long system of pipes, pumps and canals that
carries water from the Lake Tiberias, in the north of Israel, to
the arid south.      "We believe that Israel will make a significant
contribution to the theme of Expo Milano 2015." said Elazar
Cohen, commissioner general of the Israeli pavilion, at the
signing of the deal. 
     "Our objective is to show visitors the efforts that Israel
has put in place in order to feed the world and to showcase the
unique spirit of our country in terms of innovation, as well as
its culture and ancient tradition". 
     The deal sees the Mediterranean country take up a strategic
position for its pavilion at the exhibition site in an area
adjacent to the Italian pavilion. 
     With Israel, Expo Milano 2015 has now signed participation
contracts with 35 of the 123 countries that have so far
committed themselves to taking part.      The Expo, which lasts six months, is expected to attract
over 20d millions of visitors and to be a massive money spinner
for Italy's business capital.      Italy last hosted a world's fair in 1992 with a Christopher
Columbus-themed Expo in Genoa.      Roberto Formigoni, the general commissioner of Expo Milano
2015, said that organizers expect to hit their target of having
130-140 countries sign up by the end of the year.      "There's still a hint of skepticism (about Expo) in Italy,"
said Formigoni, who quit as the governor of Lombardy last year
after a series of corruption scandals hit his regional
government.      "But in the rest of the world, they look at us with great
interest".
