#titolo Frenchman Tauran to declare new pope's election - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Vatican City, March 12 - Although it is not yet
known who will be the next pope, the Vatican has settled on who
will announce to the world the name of Benedict XVI's successor.      French Cardinal Jean-Louis Tauran, 69, has been chosen to
declare to the world "Habemus Papam" - the formal Latin
declaration meaning "We have a new pope" - after the conclave
has elected the new leader of the Catholic Church.      Tauran's announcement will come after white smoke curls up
from the Sistine Chapel, where 115 cardinal electors will this
week vote on a new pontiff.      Tauran, a career diplomat, is expected to then reveal the
full birth name of the cardinal who will be pope, followed by
the papal name that the new pontiff will take for himself.      A senior member of the College of Cardinals, Tauran has the
honour of announcing the new pope thanks to his role as a
cardinal protodeacon.      His five minutes of fame, facing the television cameras and
a world audience from the central loggia of St. Peter's Basilica
in the Vatican, is widely considered a very important task.      Tauran, the first French native to perform the role in more
than 500 years, follows an impressive list of protodeacons with
family names that comprise a virtual who's who of the Italian
elite - ranging from Francesco Sforza in the early 1600s, to
Alessandro d'Este, to Antonio Doria Pamphili in 1800.      In 2005, the most recent Habemus Papam announcement,
Chilean Cardinal Jorge Arturo Medina Estevez announced the
election of Benedict XVI. 
     His announcement was preceded by a greeting to the Catholic
Church's "dear brothers and sisters" in several languages,
including German, French, Italian and English.      After the declaration of Habemus Papam, the new pope is
presented to the world and he gives his first Urbi et Orbi
blessing.      A native of Bordeaux, Tauran was ordained a priest in 1969.      He studied philosophy and theology, and holds a degree in
canon law. 
     In March 1975, he entered the diplomatic service of the
Holy See and was assigned to the Apostolic Nunciature of the
Dominican Republic, and was later transferred to the Apostolic
Nunciature in Lebanon.  
     His career then took Tauran on many special missions, from
Haiti in 1984, Beirut and Damascus two years later and to
numerous Vatican delegations at the Organization for Security
and Co-operation in Europe and the United Nations Conference on
Disarmament.      In 1991, Tauran was consecrated as titular Archbishop of
Thelepte and appointed by Pope John Paul II as head of the
Vatican's 'foreign ministry', when he was made Secretary for
Relations with States. 
     He held that post for 13 years, playing an important
diplomatic role during both wars in Iraq.      Tauran was named as a cardinal by John Paul II in 2003 and
became Protodeacon in February 2011. He is also the president of
the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue.      In a recent interview following the surprise retirement
announcement last month by Benedict, Tauran said he believed
that the new pope should continue the last pope's work in
teaching the Catholic faith.      Tauran has also said that the next pope must be open to
dialogue between various cultures and religions. 
photo: Jean-Louis Tauran with Pope John Paul II
           
