#titolo Leonardo's flight to Mars - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - On November 26, NASA's Curiosity rover set
out to Mars as part of the NASA MARs Science Laboratory with a
very special cargo on board: a chip containing the Codex on the
Flight of Birds and Leonardo's Self-Portrait.    The initiative, set up by the Italian Space Agency (ASI), RAI
and NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), combines Italian art
and science on a voyage to the Red Planet. 
   ''Italy is participating in this mission with its Renaissance
science and with an artwork that has tremendous symbolic
value'', commented ASI President Enrico Saggese.    ''"The Codex on the Flight of Birds is a synthesis of
Leonardo da Vinci's science and opened the way for the
scientific study of flight. We are very proud that these works
are aboard this mission and we thank Nasa''.    The idea of launching Leonardo on a voyage to Mars came about
during an episode of TGR Leonardo, a regular science and
technology programme by state broadcaster RAI. The programme was
taking place in the Royal Library of Turin and JPL director
Charles Elachi was one of the participants. He was turning the
pages of the Codex, housed in the library, when presenter Silvia
Rosa Brusin asked him, ''Why don't we fly it to Mars?''. Elachi
immediately welcomed the suggestion, replying ''That's a good
idea''.      The 18-page Codex, contained in a microchip in
high-definition digital format, is a symbolic text believed by
many to be a cornerstone in the history of flight. The images
contained in the chip heading for Mars were taken from a
notebook dating back to 1505, in which Leonardo drew and
described not only the flight of birds but also his famous
Flying Machine.    The MSL Mission, ''Is very important because it will take a
laboratory to the surface of Mars, which we can use to start
conducting very complex analyses compared to those carried out
so far'', said Saggese. 
   The next step will take place in 2018 with the Mars Sample
Return mission, which will include Italian equipment on board
and which will take samples of the soil on Mars before
transporting them back to Earth. (ANSA).
