#titolo Pope Francis winds up first day - ANSA English
     (By Kate Carlisle) (ANSA) - Vatican City, March 14 - The Vatican
on Thursday stressed that the new pope should be called Francis,
not Francis I.      "You only need to call him Francis, not Francis I," Vatican
spokesman Father Federico Lombardi told a news conference.      
     The new pope took the name to honour Saint Francis
of Assisi, according to the Archbishop of New York Timothy
Dolan, one of the cardinals who took part in the conclave. 
     There had been speculation that the pontiff may have become
the first pope to take the name as a tribute to Francis
Xavier, a 16th-century Spanish saint and co-founder of the
Jesuit order that the newly elected pope belongs to.      "St Francis took care of the poor and humble and this will
be his job," Dolan told reporters.      Francis also showed he still had a good sense of humour
after being elected pontiff, telling the cardinals who elected
him "May God forgive you".      The new head of the Catholic Church "brought the house
down" with the comment when dining with cardinals after the
conclave on Wednesday, according to Dolan.      Dolan, who was considered one of the favourites to become
pope before the conclave, said Francis had "won our hearts" with
his "beautiful sincerity, simplicity and humility".      Pope Francis started his first full day as the head of the
Catholic Church with a visit to Rome's Santa Maria Maggiore (St
Mary Major) Basilica.      The Argentine pontiff, who was elected the first South
American pope on Wednesday, prayed before a famous icon of the
Virgin Mary called the Salus Populi Romani (Protectress of the
Roman People).      Father Ludovico Melo, a priest who prayed with the pope,
said Francis spent around 30 minutes in the papal basilica that
is sometimes used by pontiffs, sang the Salve Regina hymn and
spoke to people in the church to confess.      "Mercy, mercy, mercy," the pope said, according to Melo. "You are confessors so be merciful with the souls". 
     "It seemed like he has always been pope," Father Elio
Monteleone said of Francis, who visited the basilica dedicated
to Mary less than 24 hours after he had been elected the new
head of the world's 1.2 billion Catholics.      "He was not embarrassed or afraid. He greeted us all one by
one. He was very warm and very simple".      Later in the day the new pope went to a residence in
central Rome where he had been staying before the conclave to
collect his things. 
     He then celebrated his first mass on Thursday inside the
Sistine Chapel with the College of Cardinals.      In his homily, Francis told cardinals that "the Church
risks becoming a non-governmental organization if it is not
married to the Lord".      The first prayer was a blessing for the Argentine pontiff
and his predecessor Benedict XVI.      It was followed by a call for the leaders of nations "not
to lord over people". 
     At the end of the mass, a prayer was said for "those who
are suffering, the struggling and forlorn".      Like the saint for which he took his name, Pope Francis is
shunning the perks and pomp of office.      He waved off the "solemn" pontifical car offered after he
became pope Wednesday night and insisted on going back to the
cardinals' residence in a minibus with the former colleagues who
had just elected him, Vatican Spokesman Father Federico Lombardi
said Thursday. 
     When he left his hotel Thursday morning, Lombardi added,
"He paid his bill to set a good example".      As Archbishop Jorge Mario Bergoglio in Buenos Aires, the
new pope was known for living in a modest flat and using public
transport. 
     Pope watchers have also noted Francis is not wearing a new
golden papal cross around his neck, keeping his simple, small
silver one, and has eschewed the dainty red shoes sported by his
predecessor Benedict XVI.      Italian President Giorgio Napolitano on Thursday
congratulated Pope Francis on his election as 266th leader of
the Catholic Church and said Italy was proud to would work with
him on a global stage to help boost rights, peace and social
justice.      Napolitano said Francis's election was "cause of universal
and joyous emotion", adding that the history and moral values of
Italy and the Church were "indissolubly bound".      "The figure of St Francis of Assisi, whom Your Holiness
chose to be inspired by...embodies this shared spiritual
richness".      The Italian president stressed that the "solid links"
between Italy and the Holy See "are aimed at pursuing the common
good and promoting an international order which assures
inviolable rights, the dignity and liberty of people, social
justice and peace".      He praised Francis's "simple" reference to his role as
Bishop of Rome in his address to the crowds in St Peter's square
Wednesday night.      Global media outlets greeted the election of Pope Francis,
pointing out the new pontiff's humble origins and wishing him
well.      In its online edition Wednesday, The Guardian titled
"Buonasera, Pope Francis".  
     French daily Le Figaro headlined: "Francis, the pope of
brotherhood", and wrote in an editorial that he was a "figure of
hope".      Other leading French daily Le Monde opened with the
headline "The pope of new horizons".      Spanish publication El Pais headlined: "A giant challenge
for a different pope", while El Mundo, in an editorial, led with
"The humble pope".      The election of Pope Francis was a "positive surprise" that
will hopefully help the Church regain some face, Austrian
Cardinal Christoph Schoenborn told Austrian Press Agency (APA)
Thursday.      "We all hope that the Pope restores the good name of the
Vatican," Schoenborn said.      Francis is expected to receive cardinals, both electors who
participated in the conclave and those who did not, on Friday,
and meet journalists the day after. 
     He will lead his first Angelus as pope in St Peter's Square
on Sunday and the inaugural mass of his pontificate will take
place on Tuesday.
