#titolo Global media greet new pope, see signs of change in church - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 14 - Global media outlets greeted the
election of Pope Francis late Wednesday and Thursday pointing
out the new pontiff's humble origins and wishing him well.      In its online edition Wednesday, The Guardian titled
"Buonasera, Pope Francis". 
     In its story, the British publication pointed out the
election of a Jesuit from Argentina represented "an
extraordinary leap" from the "conservative and cautious nature
of the previous two papacies".      The Times took a more critical stance defining the new pope
"the friend of the people who was at ease with the dictators" -
a reference to Francis' dealings with the military junta which
ruled Argentina in the late 1970s. 
     French daily Le Figaro headlined: "Francis, the pope of
brotherhood", and wrote in an editorial that he was a "figure of
hope".      Other leading French daily Le Monde opened with the
headline "The pope of new horizons", and wrote how "the
challenges which await the 226th pope are large, in a church
which faces a multiplicity of controversies, from corruption to
the sex scandals".      Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said Francis was a
bold choice: "The election of the Argentine Jesuit Bergoglio
forewarns of a turning point in the Church".      Der Spiegel wrote how Francis is a "surprise pope, an
ascetic intellectual, a second-row man" even though "in his past
there is a dark stain," it wrote referring, again, to
Argentina's military dictatorship days.      Another leading German daily, Suddeutsche Zeitung, wrote
how the new pope is "considered a man from the reform camp and
demonstrates humility". 
     However, the publication also pointed out that "his role in
Argentine history and his declarations on gay marriage make him
a controversial figure".      Spanish publication El Pais headlined: "A giant challenge
for a different pope", while El Mundo, in an editorial, led with
"The humble pope".      In the United States, the New York Times wrote about "a
conservative in tune with the people," even as it, also, pointed
to the pope's past dealings with the Argentine dictatorship. 
     The paper also said wrote how the choice was, in the end,
not as revolutionary as it may first appear. Despite his
Argentine nationality, the New York Times points out how
Bergoglio is "a conservative with Italian origins who vigorously
supports the positions of the Vatican on abortion, gay marriage
and ordination of women".      Meanwhile, the Washington Post headlined: "Francis, a first
for the papacy".
