#titolo Soccer: Juventus face stiff Bayern challenge - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 15 - Juventus face a tough challenge in
the Champions League quarter-finals after being pitched against
Bayern Munich in Friday's draw in Nyon, Switzerland.      The German giants, who lost to Chelsea in last season's
final and knocked out Arsenal in the last 16, look sure to cause
more problems than Glasgow side Celtic, who Juve turfed out 5-0
on aggregate in the previous round.      "The Germans are difficult to play against and difficult to
beat because they never give up," Juventus director and former
player Pavel Nedved told Sky television.      "Bayern are one of the scariest teams that we could have
got. They are experienced and very good".      Bayern have been crowned European Champions four times,
most recently in 2001.      Juve, European champions in 1985 and 1996, will consider
themselves unlucky as several of the teams in the draw, such as
Turkey's Galatasaray, Spain's Malaga and Germany's Borussia
Dortmund, looked far easier prospects. 
     But the Italian champions have at least avoided tournament
favourites Barcelona, who thumped AC Milan 4-0 in the last-16
return for a stunning comeback after losing the first leg 2-0,
and Real Madrid.  
     Juve will travel to Bavaria for the first leg on Tuesday
April 2 and the return in Turin will be on Wednesday April 10.      Barcelona will take on Paris Saint-Germain, Real Madrid
face Galatasaray and Malaga meet Borussia Dortmund in the other
quarter-finals.  
     Nedved played down talk of Juve, who are nine clear at the
top of Serie A, winning the Champion League.      "We must not walk before we can run," said the Czech. "I'm
happy that we are here". 
     Italy's other remaining challenger in European competition,
Lazio, were drawn against Turkish side Fenerbahce in the Europa
League quarter-finals. 
     The Rome side will have to play the home leg behind closed
doors on April 11 after being handed a two-match stadium ban
from European soccer's governing body UEFA for racism by some
fans. 
     The ban was imposed along with a 40,000-euro fine following
a February match against Germany's Borussia Moenchengladbach
when a group of Lazio fans gave a Fascist straight-armed salute. The ban was the latest in a series of sanctions from UEFA for
racist gestures by fans at previous games this season. 
     These included fans chanting 'Juden Tottenham' during a
group-stage match in November. 
     Fans of London side Tottenham take pride in having a Jewish
identify even though their followers come from a variety of
religious and ethnic backgrounds. 
     The incident took place a day after a group of Tottenham
fans were brutally set upon by masked thugs in a central Rome
pub, an attack that was linked to anti-Semitism. 
     Lazio served the first part of the stadium ban on Thursday,
when they beat VfB Stuttgart 3-1 at an empty Stadio Olimpico to
complete a 5-1 aggregate win in the last 16. 
    The Romans are the only Italians in the competition after
Inter Milan beat Tottenham 4-1 on Thursday but went out on away
goals, having losing the first leg 3-0.
