#titolo Salone del Gusto worth 2.35 mln - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - The Salone del Gusto food fair has grown
into a brand name worth 2.35 million euros, generating around 65
million euros for the local area, according to newly published
research commissioned by the Turin Chamber of Commerce. 
   The 2012 edition of the festival will see the full
integration of Salone del Gusto and its sister fair, Terra
Madre, creating a single event running from October 25 - 29 in
Turin, said Slow Food Italia President Roberto Burdese at the
unveiling of the study.    In addition to the Salone del Gusto, the trade centre will
also host the International Slow Food Congress, with 800
delegates from around the world.    The study showed that Salone del Gusto is an event with a
major economic impact on the area. This includes investments on
organizing the event (8.7 million euros in 2010, around 90% of
which was spent in Piedmont), expenditure in the city and the
region by visitors to the event (estimated, according to a
consumer profile, to have numbered around 200,000 and to have
spent over 30 million euros) plus the gain in reputation and
name through print, audio and video, estimated to be worth more
than 25 million euros.    ''Turin has for years been the incarnation of a 'one-factory
town', a city whose identity was centred entirely on
manufacturing," commented Turin Mayor Piero Fassino. "Turin then
became a 'multiple' city, linked to industry, finance,
universities, culture and tourism. The Salone del Gusto, Terra
Madre and Slow Food represent an exceptional part of our new
heritage and have been a driving force in bringing about this
change, which is not only a matter of perception but which is a
fact confirmed by the figures''. 
   The Salone del Gusto represents ''a heritage that must be
promoted by the institutions, not only as an event but also as
an investment for the future and an educational and growth
opportunity for the young'', said Piedmont Treasury Councillor
Giovanna Quaglia.    ''The value of the Salone del Gusto is not just in its
numbers but in the manner in which it has been strengthened
since joining Terra Madre in 2004, making Turin and Piedmont a
site for exploring farming, good food, sustainability and
equity'', concluded Slow Food President Carlo Petrini. (ANSA).
