#titolo The positions of Pope Francis - from gay marriage to poverty - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Buenos Aires, March 14 - From abortion to human
rights, from condemning gay marriage to condoning baptism of
children of unmarried mothers, from slamming social indifference
to tackling poverty - these are some of the best known positions
taken publicly by Pope Francis when he was still Cardinal Jorge
Bergoglio of Buenos Aires.      - THE CRIME 'HABIT'.  "Little by little we get used to
seeing and hearing through the media the crimes of contemporary
society presented almost with a perverse joy. We also get
accustomed to living with violence that kills, that destroys
families and feeds wars and conflict."
     - AGAINST DISREGARD OF HUMAN RIGHTS. "The suffering of
innocents and the peaceful never ceases to hit us, the disregard
of the rights of the most vulnerable people or populations are
not so far from us; the empire of money with its demonic effects
- drugs, corruption, the trafficking of people and even children
- together with material and moral misery have become the
current currency".      - ABORTION IS NOT A SOLUTION. "We must listen, accompany
and understand from the place where we are in order to save two
lives. Respect the smaller, defenseless human being, and adopt
measures that can save his life, allow his birth and be create
in the search for paths that carry him to his full development".      - ASSUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY. "No one assumes
responsibility for what needs to be done and for what has been
done. It seems almost an unconscious game, the 'no one did it'
has become, in the last analysis, a truth: perhaps we have truly
managed to become and to feel ourselves to be 'no one'".      - GAY MARRIAGE. "We must not be naive: it is not about a
simple political discussion, it is about purporting to destroy
God's plan. It is not a simple legislative project - that is
only the tool, or rather a move to father the lie, to confuse
and fool God's children".      - THE CRISIS. "The social-economic crisis and the
consequent increase of poverty has its roots in policies
inspired by certain forms of neoliberalism that consider
earnings and the laws of the market as absolute parameters, at
the expense of the dignity of people and populations".      - BAPTISM FOR CHILDREN OF UNMARRIED WOMEN. "In our
ecclesiastical territory there are priests who refuse to baptize
the children of unmarried mothers, because they were conceived
outside of the holiness of marriage. These are the hypocrites of
today, the ones who clerics  the Church, those who distance
God's people from salvation".      - POVERTY VIOLATES RIGHTS. "Human rights are violated not
only by terrorism, repression and murder, but also by the
existence of extreme poverty and unjust economic conditions,
which are the roots of great inequalities".
