#titolo The 'Hill of Turin' Park - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - The Parco della Collina Torinese (Park of
the Hill of Turin) is formed of two protected areas, the Vaj
Wood Nature Reserve and the Superga Hill Natural Park. It is a
green oasis surrounding Turin, which provides the perfect site
for excursions either on foot or by bike along gravel paths,
hiking trails and asphalt roads. There is extensive public
transport, making it ideal either for outings of a few hours or
for full-day excursions. 
   The park spans 750 hectares and is chiefly covered by
woodland in Bandissero, Pino, Torino and San Mauro. These areas
are now all managed by the Colina Torinese nature reserves
authority, which is headquartered in Castagneto Po. 
   One of the possible excursions, which can all be found on
maps or at www.parks.it/parco.collina.torinese, sets out from
Cordo Moncalieri, near Civil Route 147 at Parco Leopardi. Take
Route 16, called the Sentiero dei Parchi (Parks Trail), until
you come to the San Vito Municipal Trail (asphalt) in
Revigliasco. Turn left and after around 100 metres you enter the
San Vito Park to your right. The route climbs until reaching an
information panel which shows the Alpine Circle. Continue
climbing off to the left and you will exit the park, after which
head north on Viale Seneca, until coming to the Vigne di S. Vita
Road on the right. Follow this for around 150 metres uphill,
until coming to a gate. Go through the gate, remembering to
close it behind you, and you will then reach a rustic staircase
which leads on to the Strada dei Boschi (Woodland Street). 
   This woodland route runs for around a kilometre, overlooking
the Gola dell'Infero, until reaching the Raby Crossroads. The
crossroads marks the lower border of the Maddalena Park. There
are plenty of routes leading up to the park, thanks to a dense
network of trails and tracks. Choose any until arriving at the
summit (715 metres' altitude), which is home to the Victory
Lighthouse, one of the hill's best panoramic spots. There are
various routes inside the park but the Red Trail not only leads
to the top of the hill but is also the easiest way to reach the
Grande Traversata della Collina (the Great Hill Crossing), which
is marked with signposting labelled GTC. This new trail leaves
the north face of the Maddalena Park and climbs across the far
side until reaching the south side of the Bric della Croce. It
descends down the slope and then circles the Bric della Cresta
alongside Trail 31, leading to the Pera del Tesor and the nearby
Monsferratus archaeological site (4th to 6th century BC) on Bric
San Viter. 
   Follow the GTC trail north (Trail 32), which will take you
along an almost flat section until you reach the remains of the
Camaldolesi Hermitage. Built in 1606, all that is left now is
the bell-tower and the remains of the Tower of Princes. Continue
along the GTC and follow the route down the south side until
coming to the Margherita Farmstead and the Tetti Rosero di
Pecetto (Trail 33). The route then climbs up again to the
Mongino Plain. After a brief stretch of asphalt road on the
ridge in a northerly direction, you come to the Gallo Trail
(GTC) on your right. Take this trail, which will lead you to the
centre of Pino Torinese after a couple of kilometres. You then
turn towards the Santissima Annunziata Parish Church, which
offers a wonderful panorama over the areas around Chieri and
Asti. The route then follows the Via Maria Cristina, climbing
upwards until crossing the Montosolo Hill near the cemetery. From here, head downwards in a northerly direction until coming
to the Strada dei Colli, which is renowned for its views. You
then come to the Superga Natural Park and continue on until
reaching the Basilica. From here, you head downhill, where you
can take public transport or walk to Corso Casale. The entire
route, which is enjoyable at any time of year, takes 6.5 hours
and offers spectacular views throughout. (ANSA).
