#titolo 'Ruby' trial verdict to be delayed - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 18 - Delays ordered by a Milan court
on Monday for a trial into allegations that ex-premier Silvio
Berlusconi paid to have sex with an underage prostitute will
mean that a Supreme Court ruling on whether or not trials should
be moved to the nearby city of Brescia will precede the verdict.      On Friday, Berlusconi's defence lawyers asked for the
ex-premier's two Milan trials be moved on the grounds of alleged
bias by magistrates he says are persecuting him.     The lawyers accused the Milan judges and prosecutors of
being "hostile" to Berlusconi, as allegedly shown by their
recent orders for medical checks that an eye problem which sent
the ex-premier to hospital made him genuinely unable to attend
hearings.      The trial had already been adjourned three times after
Berlusconi spent over a week in hospital with a condition
reportedly caused by someone poking him in the eye and the
resultant high blood pressure. 
    The court said the trial would resume on March 25 and
cancelled the hearings scheduled to take place on Wednesday and
Thursday.     Prosecutors, who made the court send medical inspectors to
check on Berlusconi's condition last week, had asked the judges
not to delay the trial again, saying the 76-year-old media
magnate was in "contempt of court" for playing for time.      Berlusconi is accused of paying to have sex with a young
Moroccan dancer, Karima El Mahroug, better known as Ruby the
Heart-stealer, before she was 18 during alleged bunga bunga sex
parties at his home.      Both the ex-premier and the woman deny ever having sex. She
said money she received from Berlusconi was given as part of a
gift.      Berlusconi is also accused of abuse of office for allegedly
having used his influence when he was premier to spring El
Mahroug from a Milan police station to hush up the affair after
an unrelated theft claim, saying she was the niece of then
Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak.       The charge of having sex with an underage prostitute
carries a jail term of up to three years, and abuse of office 12
years.
