#titolo Marines row with India moves up a notch - ANSA English
     (By Denis Greenan).    (ANSA) - New Delhi, March 18 - The Supreme Court in New
Delhi on Monday extended its order for Italian Ambassador
Daniele Mancini to stay in Indian territory in a dispute over
two Italian marines accused of killing two Indian fishermen off
the coast of Kerala during an anti-piracy mission last year. 
     The Supreme Court said Mancini had "automatically lost" his
diplomatic immunity by signing a guarantee that the marines,
Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, would return after
being allowed to come home last month to vote in Italy's general
election.      The Italian government recently said the marines, who face
charges of homicide, will not return, sparking a furious
reaction from New Delhi.      Rome has always denied that India has jurisdiction over the
matter, as the incident took place in international waters.      Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi said last week that
the decision to not return the pair was legitimate and Italy had
a strong case which it wanted to put to independent arbitration.      An earlier deal, which allowed the marines to return to
Italy for Christmas, was respected by both governments and was
seen as a positive step - as well as a sign of goodwill -
towards a diplomatic solution.  
     On Monday the India Supreme Court adjourned Mancini's case
until April 2 and said he was not to leave the country before
then. 
EU DISTANCES SELF BUT SAYS RESPECT VIENNA CONVENTION 
     The European Union distanced itself from the festering
diplomatic row and called on Italy and India to honor the Vienna
Convention on Diplomatic Relations.      The EU's high representative for foreign affairs Catherine
Ashton told ANSA in a note that the European Union is not part
of the legal dispute between Italy and India and thus can not
take a position with respect to the legal arguments on the
substance of the case.      Ashton encouraged Italy and India to find a "mutually
satisfactory" and "friendly solution" based on the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas and international law.      Ashton's spokesman went on to say the EU believed the two
countries should uphold the Vienna Convention, which lays down
the rules about diplomatic immunity.      "The Vienna Convention must be respected by both parties,"
he said.      The international treaty was negotiated in 1961 and says
the rights of diplomats are "inviolable" and they cannot be
detained.
