#titolo Self-portrait of a legend - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - The exhibition devoted to Leonardo da Vinci
and running at the Reggia di Venaria is not only an exhibition
of his famous self-portrait but is actually a self-portrait of
Leonardo's work, as well as an act of love for his genius,
according to the event's two curators, Paola Salvi and Carlo
Pedretti, the chair of Leonardo studies at the University of
California in Los Angeles.    ''This exhibition - packed with new information, created in
this place of extraordinary Italian beauty and staged by
Oscar-winning designer Dante Ferretti - is a kind of
introduction to the large-scale exhibition that will open in
Amboise, France on May 2, 2019 marking 500 years since
Leonardo's death'', said Pedretti. ''I am very hopeful that
Leonardo's self-portrait will be a part of that exhibition''. 
   The present show, which is the last major event in the
celebrations marking 150 years of Italian unification, not only
features the renowned self-portrait on unusual loan from the
Turin Royal Library with the consent of Culture Minister
Giancarlo Galan, but also boasts around 30 original drawings and
writings linked to the masterpiece. These works not only include
exhibits by Leonardo's contemporaries bewitched by Leonardo's
genius but also from the modern world, including Marcel
Duchamp's bearded Mona Lisa in L.H.O.O.Q. and Andy Warhol's Last
Supper.    The exhibition, which has already sold 25,000 advance tickets
from around the world, was inaugurated by Turin Mayor Piero
Fassino, Piedmont Governor Roberto Cota and La Reggia
management, President Fabrizio Del Noce and Director Alberto
Vanelli, plus numerous experts including Piero Angela.    The famous TV science presenter has prepared a 10-minute
video, divided into two parts, one at the beginning and one at
the end, which is proving particularly popular with the public. With the assistance of the Rome art police team, which includes
plastic surgeon Giorgio Giovannelli and artist Gianni
Stillitano, the video reconstructs, in stages, what Leonardo da
Vinci would have looked like as a younger man based on the
portrait. This extraordinary process aims to depict Leonardo's
face prior to aging, stroke, disease and loss of teeth shaped
the distinctive features made famous in the self-portrait. 
   Interestingly, the features revealed in the youthful
reconstruction coincide perfectly with the face discovered by
Piero Angela between the lines in a page of the Codex on the
Flight of Birds, a discovery within a discovery. 
   ''This is a top-quality exhibition, blending art and science,
scientific rigour and the spectacular'', commented Mayor Piero
Fassino. ''It is an exhibition that showcases Turin's new
vocation as a city of great culture, a vocation which has
recently been consolidated with the celebrations marking 150
years of Italian unification''.    The exhibition, 'Leonardo. Il genio e il Mito' (Leonardo: The
Genius and the Legend) runs until January 29, 2012. (ANSA).
