#titolo Pope confirms bishop's coat of arms, ring and motto - ANSA English
     (By Kate Carlisle)(ANSA) - Vatican City, March 18 - Pope Francis
has chosen his papacy's coat of arms, Piscatory ring and motto
that will accompany him throughout his years as the 266th
pontiff and leader of the Catholic world.      The former archbishop of Buenos Aires chose a simple
gold-plated silver model ring, one of the vestments of the
papacy, that will be presented to him during the religious
celebration of his inauguration on Tuesday at St Peter's.       The newly elected pontiff chose a ring, traditionally cast
in pure gold, that was crafted by the late designer Enrico
Manfrini.       Known as the 'the pope's sculptor', Italian goldsmith
Manfrini died in 2004. 
      Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi explained that
the ring that bears the image of St Peter with the keys was
previously owned by the private secretary of Pope Paul VI,
Archbishop Pasquale Macchi. 
     The Piscatory ring, or Ring of the Fisherman, depicts St
Peter fishing from the side of a boat and until 1842 served as
the official signet to seal papal documents.      Upon becoming pope in 2005, Benedict chose to reintroduce
it as his daily-wear ring, a gesture that the goldsmith who made
the papal ring, Claudio Franchi, called an example of the
conservative pope's desire to "reintroduce something of value
from the past".      The newly elected pope's coat of arms is equally as simple,
composed of a gold star representing the Virgin Mary, a
grape-like plant called the nardo that is often used to
represent St Joseph, and the emblem of Francis' Jesuit order.      The nardo and star are painted on a on a bright blue
background and together the three represent Jesus, Mary and
Joseph. 
     It is the same coat of arms he used as archbishop of Buenos
Aires, with its status elevated by the symbols of the papacy, a
bishops' miter and gold and silver-crossed keys.      Underneath the crest reads "miserando atque eligendo" or
"lowly and yet chosen" and like the coat of arms itself is a
carry over from his time as archbishop of the Argentine capital.      Pope Francis has also chosen his personal secretary,
Gozitan priest, Monsignor Alfred Xuereb.      Sources said that the 54-year-old clergyman from Malta was
called to meet the new pontiff last Friday, two days after
Cardinal Bergoglio was chosen as Pope. 
     The meeting reportedly took place at the Vatican's Domus
Santa Marta where Pope Francis is staying until his permanent
residence is ready.      Xuereb was Benedict XVI's second secretary and worked
closely with Archbishop Georg Gaenswein, who was the former
pope's personal secretary until his resignation on February 28.
