#titolo Pope shocks world with resignation - ANSA English
(ANSA) - Vatican City, February 11 - Pope Benedict XVI shocked the world on  Mondayby announcing that he will step down as the head of the Catholic Church as of  February 28, citing his 'advanced age' as the reason and spurring speculation the world's 1.1 billion Catholics may get an African as their next leader. 
   The  85-year-old German pontiff said he was "well aware of the seriousness of  this act" but felt he lacked the necessary  mental and physical strength to continue. 
  "After  having repeatedly examined my conscience before God, I have come to the  certainty that my strengths, due to an advanced age, are no longer  suited to an adequate exercise of the Petrine ministry," Benedict told a  meeting of cardinals. 
  "I am well aware that this ministry, due to its essential spiritual nature, must be carried out not only  with words and deeds, but no less with prayer and suffering. 
 "However, in today's world, subject to so many rapid changes and shaken  by questions of deep relevance for the life of faith, in order to govern  the bark of Saint Peter and proclaim the Gospel, both strength of mind  and body are necessary, strength which in the last few months, has  deteriorated in me to the extent that I have had to recognize my  incapacity to adequately fulfill the ministry entrusted to me". 
 Benedict is the first pope to resign in modern times and Monday's announcement stunned the world. 
 Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi said even he was taken aback  by Benedict's decision. 
 "The pope took us a bit by surprise," Lombardi told a press conference. 
 He added that recently those near the pontiff had noticed "he had become more tired and fatigued than in the past". 
 Italian cardinal Angelo Sodano, the dean of the  College of Cardinals, said that Pope Benedict XVI's announcement was a "bolt  out of the blue". 
 Italian Premier Mario Monti was stunned."I am very shocked by this unexpected news," Monti said. Monti said he  had no "signs or hints" of the impending decision during recent  meetings with the pope. 
 At 78, the former Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger was one  of the oldest new popes in history when he was elected in 2005 following  the death of John Paul II.   
 Benedict said the pontificate  would be vacant as of 20.00 Italian time (19:00 GMT) of February 28 and  that he had called a conclave to elect his successor.  
 "Dear  Brothers, I thank you most sincerely for all the love and work with  which you have supported me in my ministry and I ask pardon for all my  defects,"  Benedict told the cardinals. 
 "And now, let us entrust the Holy  Church to the care of Our Supreme Pastor, Our Lord Jesus Christ, and  implore his holy Mother Mary, so that she may assist the Cardinal  Fathers with her maternal solicitude, in electing a new Supreme Pontiff. 
  "With regard to myself, I wish to also devotedly serve the  Holy Church of God in the future through a life dedicated to prayer". 
 WORLD LEADERS SHOCKED AND MOVED. 
 Around the world, stunned religious leaders and heads of state paid tribute to Benedict. 
Chief Imam for the Sunni  muslims, Ahmad el Tayyeb, expressed "shock" at the news from the margins of a  closed door meeting in Cairo to elect a new grand Mufti of Egypt. 
Chief  rabbi for Israel, Yona Metzger, credited Pope Ratzinger with forging "the best  relations between the Rabbinate and the Catholic Church" and wished the pope  good health and a long life. 
"He must be given credit for having done a  great deal for inter-religious ties in the world between Christianity, Judaism  and Islam," Metzger added. 
"It is moving news," said German Chancellor  Angela Merkel, commenting on the German pope's decision, and a choice that  elicits "my greatest respect". 
Cardinal Keith O'Brien, head of the  Scottish Catholic church, said he was "shocked" and "heartbroken" by the news,  and sent a message throughout the Scottish parishes to pray for Joseph Ratzinger  in his moment of difficulty. 
French president Francois Holland called the  pope's decision "highly respectable" and a "human decision". 
British  Prime Minister David Cameron wished the pope well and gave him credit for  tireless work to reinforce ties between Britain and the Catholic Church. 
   
 BOOKIES SAY IT COULD BE AFRICA'S TIME. 
 The pope's resignation announcement stunned the world  and triggered a flurry of rumours and speculation about who will replace the  pontiff. 
With his replacement not  likely to be selected until the end of March, bookies, politicians, and Vatican  watchers will have plenty of time to weigh candidates. 
But as the  Catholic Church rises in size and power in Africa, as well as in Asia and Latin  America, pressure is also increasing for a non-European pope to be selected by  the church's cardinals, who will meet in conclave in mid-March. 
That  helps explain why online betting agency Agimeg says that the next pope could be  Nigerian Cardinal Francis Arinze, 80, and in second place Cardinal Peter Turkson  of Ghana, 64. Arinze, known as a scholarly conservative, came to Rome to study  theology at the Pontifical Urban University, where he ultimately earned a  doctorate in sacred theology summa cum laude. 
But at popular Dublin-based  bookmaker Paddy Power Plc, Turkson of Ghana is the favorite at odds of 9-4 to  replace Pope Benedict, and Arinze is in third place at 3-1. Turkson, who lives  in Rome and speaks numerous languages, was educated in the United States,  attending St. Anthony-on-Hudson Seminary in Rensselaer, New York, where  he obtained a Bachelor's degree in theology. 
Turkson was appointed  president of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace by Pope Benedict in  2009. 
Canada's Marc Ouellet, 68, is second favorite at 5-2,  according to Paddy Power. 
However, his election seems less  likely. 
Ouellet, who became a cardinal in 2003, was quoted in June 2011  as suggesting he would have no interest in the Pope's job because its intensely  heavy workload "would be a nightmare" with crushing  responsibilities. 
"It's the kind of thing you don't campaign  for". 
Bookies have named Milan Cardinal Angelo Scola as the European  favourite to succeed Benedict, followed by Vatican Secretary of State Tarcisio  Bertone and Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco, archbishop of Genoa and president of the  Italian Bishops' Conference. 
The name to be chosen by the next pope is  also subject for wagering, with Peter in the lead, followed by Pius, John Paul,  John, and Benedict. 
  
   
   
   
    
