#titolo Christmas with snowflakes festival - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - Art, folklore and a series of live shows are
lined up for Turin's Natale coi Fiocchi ('Chrismas with
Snowflakes') festival, including a unique opportunity to admire
Michelangelo's Madonna with Child, in a rare showing.    ''This year we have prepared a series of absolutely
top-quality initiatives, which seek to blend tradition and the
avant-garde'', commented Turin Culture Councillor Maurizio
Braccialarghe. ''The residents, just like the tourists who are
arriving in our city in ever greater numbers, will be able to
enjoy a city steeped in an extraordinary atmosphere''.    Natale coi Fiocchi is the umbrella name selected by the
administration for a host of events, including exhibitions;
popular, classical and religious music concerts; gospel choirs;
classical dance and street dance; street singers; poets; pipers;
buskers; jazz virtuousos; jugglers clowns; illusionsists and
stilt-walkers. One of the biggest events of the season will be a
concert led by Renzo Arbore with his Italian Orchestra in Piazza
San Carlo.    The Michelangelo masterpiece will be on display at Piazza
Madama from December 7 until February 19, while Piazza Castello
will host the charming Emanuele Luzzati Nativity Scene as of
December 1, featuring 90 carved wooden figures. Those wandering
through the old streets of the historic city centre will be
treated to an outdoor exhibition, 'Luci d'Artista', a series of
light installations created by some of the best known names from
contemporary art world. Arrivals to the Porta Nuova train
station will be greeted by Christmas carollers. The Umberto I,
Subalpina and San Federico Galleries will allow visitors to
enjoy the rehearsal concerts for the Europa Cantat music
festival, with singers from the Teatro Regio and pupils from the
Civic School of Musical Training.    The Medieval Town will resound with Renaissance music,
providing a backdrop to the Noel exhibition, offering a unique
perspective on ancient Christmas musical traditions through
films, instruments and explanatory panels.    Piazza Carlo Alberto will host an ice-rink, with a
traditional Christmas market in  Borgo Dora, with 140 exhibitors
from across Europe, while the shopping streets will be decorated
with window prints provided by the local authorities.    An entire segment of Natale coi Fiocchi is devoted to
folklore and tradition. The nativity tale will be presented at
the Cavallerizza on January 6 and 7, in a piece entitled ''Terra
Cometa - Storie di Magi, viaggi e omaggi'' (Coment Land -
Stories of Wise Men, Voyages and Tributes). This year is also
the anniversary of 150 years of Italian Unification, in
celebration of which Turin is exploring the values, traditions
and art from across the country's different regions. This means
that visitors to the city may encounter any range of activities,
from Sardinian shepherds' songs to poetry competitions typical
of central Italy, to street musicians complete with horn and
drums, or cheerful marching bands such as the Quintetti
d'Ottone.    Music will be the link between Turin's various spiritual
cultural events, offering a universal language that unites
different faiths and different areas. Eleven churches, together
with the Valdese Temple, will host concerts and readings, while
the Mole Antonelliana Temple Hall will present a special
Hanukkah celebration on December 21. The Taiba Cultural Centre
and the Church of Saints Peter and Paul  in San Salvario will
stage performances by the mysterious dervishes of Sam'A,
celebrating the Sufi Muslim faith. On December 26, the Orthodox
Christian community will ceberate in Piazzale Valdo Fusi with
two large-scale choirs, while the Church of Via Accademia
Albertina will stage an exhibition of icons.    There will of course also be dozens of initiaves for
children, starting with the brightly coloured trains that will
wend their way through the historic centre in search of Toret,
the city's new icon, who will be dressed as Santa Claus. The
Valentino Park will host life-sized dinosaurs from December 2 to
February 5, with an excavation area designed to introduce
children to archaeology. From December 8 until January 8,
Piazzale Valdo Fusi will give younger visitors the chance to
create original Christmas tree decorations from recycled
materials. (ANSA).
