#titolo Italy marines row with India intensifies - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 14 - A diplomatic row over Italian
marines accused of killing two Indian fishermen last year
intensified Thursday after Italy's decision not to send them
back after a trip home to vote in February's general election.     As India's showed fresh ire over what it saw as a failure to
uphold a sworn pledge, the country's Supreme Court ordered the
Italian ambassador to New Delhi, Daniele Mancini, to "not leave
the country".       The court also wrote to the two marines, Massimilano
Latorre and Salvatore Girone, asking them to clarify their
position, ANSA sources said.      In another development, India put on hold the procedure for
its new ambassador to Rome to take up his position.      The new ambassador, Basant Kumar Gupta, was scheduled to
leave for Rome on Friday.      The Indian foreign ministry has also summoned the EU's
ambassador to New Delhi to discuss the case.      Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi reacted by saying
Italy's decision not to send back the marines was legitimate.      "We have a very solid position, of which we are perfectly
convinced, (as are) many important partners in the international
community, (based on) the fact that we are acting in full
respect of international law," Terzi said from Jerusalem, where
he is on a diplomatic mission to meet Israeli political leaders.      The Italian foreign minister was referring to the Indian
Supreme Court's letter to the Italian ambassador which accused
him of "violating" the pledge to return the two men.       Asked to comment specifically on the letter delivered to
Italy's ambassador, Terzi only said: "I won't enter
into the details".       The marines, who had been held in India since February
2012, were allowed to return to Italy for one month for national
elections held February 24-25.      Latorre and Girone, who are charged with homicide for
alleged shooting the fisherman while on an anti-piracy mission,
were supposed to return to India later this month.      The Italian government has always denied that India has
jurisdiction over the matter, as the incident took place in
international waters off the country's coast.      Along with the order to not leave the country, the Supreme
Court ordered the ambassador to offer explanations for Italy's
actions by March 18.      An earlier deal, which allowed the marines to return to
Italy for Christmas, was respected by both governments and was
seen as a positive step - as well as a sign of goodwill -
towards a diplomatic solution.       Commenting the developments on Thursday, Indian Foreign
Minister Salman Khurshid said that a decision regarding the
matter would "be taken by the Supreme Court in collaboration
with the central government".       The Indian government, Khurshid said, "is following the
situation in collaboration with the Republic's central
prosecutor".      
     In separate statements to journalists, Khurshid said: "the
most important thing is to safeguard the dignity and the
feelings of the India".       Some members of the Indian political establishment seem to
be using the diplomatic tussle over the marines to gain leverage
ahead of national elections scheduled to take place later this
year.       On Thursday, Subramanian Swamy, president of the
opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, presented a petition to the
Supreme Court asking for legal action against the Italian
ambassador for the crime of "contempt of court".       The current government is led by the Congress Party, whose
president, Sonia Gandhi, the Italian wife of Rajiv Gandhi, a
former Congress leader and prime minister assassinated in 1991.
