#titolo MuseoTorino wins Icom prize - English News
     (ANSA) - TURIN - The virtual museum MuseoTorino has won the
2011 Information Communication Technology (ICOM) prize for
Italian Museums. The project, created as part of the
celebrations to mark 150 years of Italian Unification, was
awarded the prize in recognition of its skill at promoting and
facilitating the relationship between the museum and the public
through new technologies. 
   MuseoTorino is unique, both at a national and European level. It groups together, preserves and shares knowledge about the
city Turin. Located at www.museotorino.it, it features
information on places, their history, the people that lived
there and particular events, meandering through the entire city
along themed routes. Each stop - be it a place, an event, a
person or a theme - is accompanied by an information page,
complete with notes, archiving options and book references. Around 13,700 pages are included, which are updated daily. 
   "The MuseoTorino project is one of the most sophisticated
interpretations of international eco-museology, in which a big
city, Turin, has itself been transformed into a museum,
revealing secret pieces of heritage," commented the ICOM panel
in reaching its decision. "These have been gathered together and
made accessible through an effective mix of all new
technologies. It moves beyond the traditional concept of the
'city museum', i.e. a place chosen to tell the historic events
of an urban space, and moves into a vision that skilfully blends
the all-Italian concept of a "multi-site museum" with the
international concept of the eco-museum. The technology used is
not therefore an accessory but rather a medium for the actual
museum itself. In that sense it opens new frontiers in applying
new technologies to cultural heritage". 
   The website, created by the Turin municipal council with the
support of the Compagnia di San Paolo, utilizes state-of-the-art
apparatus that allows users to navigate the paths of Web 3.0 and
open source networking. "It aims to be not only a museum for
everyone but a museum by everyone," the panel remarked. (ANSA).
