#titolo Indian airports told Italian ambassador can't leave - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - New Delhi, March 15 - The Indian interior ministry
notified all the country's airports Friday about a supreme court
travel ban on the Italian ambassador amid a row over two Italian
marines accused of killing two fishermen who failed to return to
India as promised earlier this week. 
     The court slapped the ban, lasting until March 19, on
Ambassador Daniele Mancini after the Italian government's
decision not to send the marines back to India after they were
granted a permit to come home to vote in last month's general
elections.      In other moves India on Thursday put on hold
the procedure for its new ambassador to Rome to take up his
position and summoned the EU's ambassador to New Delhi to
discuss the case.      The marines, Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who
had been held in India since February 2012, were allowed to
return to Italy for one month for national
elections held February 24-25.      Latorre and Girone, who are charged with homicide for
allegedly shooting the fishermen while on an anti-piracy
mission, were supposed to return to India later this month.      The Italian government has always denied that India has
jurisdiction over the matter, as the incident took place in
international waters off the country's coast.      In its letter to the Italian ambassador, the Indian Supreme
Court said Mancini ''violated'' a ''sworn declaration''
presented on February 9 to the Indian government as ''a
guarantee of the marines' return''.      Along with the order to not leave the country, the Supreme
Court ordered the ambassador to offer explanations for Italy's
actions by March 18.      An earlier deal, which allowed the marines to return to
Italy for Christmas, was respected by both governments and was
seen as a positive step - as well as a sign of goodwill -
towards a diplomatic solution.      Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi on Thursday said
Italy's decision to not return the pair was legitimate and Italy
had a strong case which it wanted to put to independent
arbitration.     "We have a very solid position, of which we are perfectly
convinced, (as are) many important partners in the international
community, (based on) the fact that we are acting in full
respect of international law," Terzi said.
