#titolo Vco, rise in visitor numbers - English News
     (ANSA) - VERBANIA - Tourism in the province of
Verbano-Cusio-Ossola (VCO) is thriving, according to the latest
figures released by the Provincial Tourism Observatory. 
   During the first nine months of the year, the number of
people staying overnight rose by 2.96% compared to the same
period last year. The figures showed an increase from 2,396,805
in 2010 to 2,476,760 people in 2012. The average length of time
people stayed for also rose from 3 days to 4.7 days. The number
of Italian visitors dropped (by 2.62%) but was more than
compensated for by an increase in the number of holidaymakers
from abroad (up 4.48%). 
   "Last year, we achieved the best result ever but we've
managed to do even better this year," commented VCO provincial
governor Massimo Nobili. "Given the currently bleak economic
climate, this really indicates the tremendous potential for
tourism in VCO". 
   VCO Tourism Councillor Giudina Del Sasso commented: "This
means almost 80,000 more people. This was not a foregone or
accidental achievement. It is the result of the skilful,
professional work of operators, who continue to invest in our
tourism opportunities by renewing structures and services. It is
also the result of promotional activity, conducted with the
relevant authorities, despite the current lack of resources,
such as participating in various fairs, both in Italy and
abroad, and organizing special initiatives". 
   In addition, the councillor noted that the popularity of Lake
Maggiore among the French Swiss had been of particular
assistance. 
   The largest group of visitors from abroad came from Germany,
followed by the Dutch and the French. There were also a great
many vacationers from Switzerland and Lichtenstein, encouraged
by the euro-franc exchange-rate. Other nationalities included
the British, whose numbers rose 21% and the Belgians. In terms
of destination, Verbania topped the list, with 794,000 visitors,
followed by Stresa (444,000), Baveno and Cannobio. Among the
mountain resorts, Macugnaga saw a drop in the number of people
staying overnight but was still the most popular high-altitude
destination, ahead of Domodossola, with 2,450 visitors. 
   "These are important results which also reward the hard work
of local tourist enterprises," said the head of the tourist
board responsible for the lakes area, Antonio Longo Dorni. "Our
work increasingly focuses on providing services to encourage
visitors, business and events, including through the Internet". (ANSA).
