#titolo Napolitano warns against risks of 'destabilising tensions' - ANSA English
     (ANSA) - Rome, March 12 - Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano on Tuesday evening attempted to bring some calm back
to the country's political scene spiraling out of control after
members of Sivlio Berlusconi's People of Freedom (PdL) party on
Monday demonstrated inside Milan's main courthouse.      The ex-premier's supporters were protesting against what
they claim is judicial persecution of the party's leader and
have threatened to boycott the opening session of parliament.      After separate talks Tuesday with PdL party secretary
Angelino Alfano and later with members of the Italian judges'
self-regulatory body, Napolitano released a note in which he
warned against "destabilising tensions" which could harm Italy's
democracy.      Responding to criticisms of Italy's judiciary by PdL
leaders, Napolitano said that the idea of judicial maneuvers
aimed at preventing Berlusconi from participating in the coming
institutional appointments were an "aberrant hypothesis". 
     Referring to the open clash between part of the political
spectrum and the judiciary, Napolitano said that politics and
justice are "not hostile worlds. They should not perceive each
other as such," but, rather, they should be "united in
responsibility".      The president, however, also warned the judges to not
overreach their mandates. 
     Napolitano said that he had "firmly urged those who are
called to investigate and judge respect the rigorous norms of
behavior," warning them against "inappropriate missions" and
inviting them to "scrupulously observe the principles of a just
trial, as outlined in the Constitution".     In his statement, the president said that following the
uncertain situation caused by last February's inconclusive
election and due to the importance of impending institutional
appointments - including attempts to form a new government as
well as elections for a new head of state - it is necessary to
"avoid destabilising tensions for our democratic system".     During his seven-year term, Napolitano said he had
"considered and confronted the essential problem of
re-establishing a correct and constructive climate in the
relations between justice and politics".     "In this moment (we) are unfortunately seeing an alarming,
new spiral of polemics between the voices from one and the other
side of the field," Napolitano said, referring to the contrasts
between politics and justice.
